---
layout: post
title: Update I
---

This is our first official update to early supporters / mentors / fans of what we’re building. Thanks for your help so far.

## TLDR

We are building a financial planning tool for businesses, starting with ecommerce. Awesome initial momentum, more customer validation needed as we prep for fundraising.

## Highlights

* We had 8 customer discovery calls with FP&A staff, ecommerce store owners, and founders of Finance Planning tools. Key learnings include:

* Important to chase > $50K ACVs

* Starting with a vertical and embracing the complexity / custom requirements of that audience

* The importance of telling a story when in the role of Finance

* We held over 15 practice pitches with friendly founders and VCs. We got positive feedback on team, market size, and GTM. There’s more work to do around sizing up competitors, talking through the ‘why now’, and flow / cohesion of the story. 

* Manish gave a [talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IQOSHWF1VDw) about the Future of Finance at the second meeting of the anti ERP ERP meetup. 

## Lowlights

* Seizing on a compelling ‘why now’ / reason for someone to lean in after seeing our blurb

* Zero hit rate with our cold outbound campaign to Inventory Planners

* No paying design partners for our ecomm reporting tool yet.

## Asks

* Intros to small ecommerce stores (<$5M annual revenue) who are tracking their stores metrics in Shopify/Amazon’s dashboard OR an excel tracker sheet and are open to an alternative solution.

* Intros to finance professions (planners, strategic finance, fp&a).

## Blurbs

### For design partners @ ecommerce stores

Manish worked at Morgan Stanley as an engineer, directly supporting the FP&A team. Zeeshan was an engineer at JP Morgan and Quovo (acq’d by Plaid). 

We are building financial planning & analysis tools for ecommerce businesses. We’re seeking to talk to operators who want to enhance their reporting, analysis, and insights capabilities. Our ultimate goal is to help ecommerce brands drive more dollars to their bottom line.

### For prospective investors

Magic Plan is a financial planning tool for businesses, starting with inventory planning. Inventory planners deal with a mish-mosh of spreadsheets, emails, and PDFs. We’re automating the data gathering and cleaning, freeing up FP&A staff to focus on making the best and most precise recommendations. Our ultimate vision is to be the financial planning tool for all enterprises.

Manish (CEO) worked at Morgan Stanley as an engineer, directly supporting the FP&A team. Zeeshan (CTO) was an engineer at JP Morgan and Quovo (acq’d by Plaid). Together, we’re going after the $17B EPM market. We’re taking on the reigning incumbents (Anaplan, Adaptive, Hyperion) and seeking partners that want to come along for the fight.
